Before moving on, let's take a quick look at the engine classes that can be configured in world settings.
These are the key gameplay classes that we will look at as we progress through our course.
In this lecture, we will only talk about them superficially.
So, all objects that are in our game world are of the AActor type.
This is an Unreal base class that you can add to your scene. It can be arbitrary geometry, special effect, sound ..
All characters are actors. We can place the actor manually, or dynamically spawn them in the world.
Also, the actor may have no representation, appearance, be purely logical, like, for example,
our GeometryHubActor. Actors are a composition of various components, which in
turn determine its final appearance. There are also visual components such as a skinned mesh, a
particle system component, a text display component, and so on. And there are purely logical
components such as a motion component. This component does not have any representation, but it has
parameters and settings that determine how the actor will move in space, according to which laws the
Component model is quite convenient. Components are easy to reuse. We can create
different actors with a different set of components and specify different settings in these components.
Let's organize some information. So, we have a game world that consists of actors.
Actors, in turn, are made up of components. There can be infinitely many components
and with the help of these entities we will design the game. Actually, the actor is not the most basic
type in the unreal engine. The archetype is the UObject type, but we will not be able to create an object of the UObject type on the stage
, but we can create it dynamically in code and encapsulate some logic in it.
We will not work with UObjects in this course.
The first class that we will study already in this section is called APawn. Pawn is an Actor that can be controlled.
That is, this class is inherited, extends the Actor class. And it has additional functionality.
For example, it can accept input from various input devices and react to this input in some way.
I created a default pawn using blueprints. As we can see, it has no components, has
no idea, but we can control it. I prepared two paunas in advance. One is a flying saucer
that hovers around the stage, and the second pawn is a car that drives around the stage. There is also a code
for gaining control over a specific pawn. We'll cover that in this section as well. I press Enter
and start controlling the flying saucer. It reacts to the mouse and to the arrows on the keyboard.
Then I press Enter again, change the pawn and use the same input to
drive the car. The class that allows us to control the pays is called APlayerController.
This class has no visual representation - it is a logical class.
In essence, this is the interface between us users and the spawn that we manage.
APlayerController exists throughout the entire game level, while spawns can be destroyed, respawn.
We can control different pounders, switch between them, or not control any pounders at all.
APlayerController also has input. It is customary to handle events that are not related to a particular pawn.
For example, exiting the menu, turning off the sound, or even closing the game.
We get the following scheme: pawn and playercontroller inherit from the actor.
They both exist in the game world, but the controller has no external representation.
Also playercontroller owns a pawn, although it is possible that he does not own any of the pounders.
We can specify a default spawn class. Then it will be created during the start of the game.
Before that, we need to create our own GameModeBase class. We will talk about it a little later.
Let's indicate the created class in the property Game Mode Override. After that, all other classes
become available to us . And in the property Default Pawn Class, for example, we can specify a typewriter.
At startup, a default pawn was created, and a controller was also created - we have not changed the class for it yet.
We control the default pouncing, but we can also switch between other pounders.
The next class we'll look at is called the ACharacter class. This class is inherited from the APawn class.
That is, it can also be controlled.
Additional functionality is added to this class.
It has a capsule component, which is responsible for physical interactions with the outside world.
there is a skeletal mesh component in which we set up the model and animation of the character.
There is also a logical component called the character movement. This component is responsible for
how our character moves in the environment. For its speed, jump height and other settings.
Let's start the game. I also have additional code to capture the character. So, we control
our character, which we will completely design with you in this course. He can
run, jump and shoot. We can also access over another character.
His set of actions is about the same. The only difference is animation.
A character is a subclass of a pawn - so we can change the Default Pawn Class to a character class.
I will indicate the character class that we will create in this course and also change the controller, although
this does not matter now . We start the game and the character specified in the settings has been created. Once again,
we are now looking at the top of the main classes of the game. We will create all these classes with you from scratch a little
later and we will understand in detail what is happening in them.
Now we know about the existence of the character.
It is inherited from paun. The class diagram can be updated. Now it looks like this.
In the course, I will sometimes call our character a spider, sometimes I will be called an actor. As we can see,
this is true. The character is a spider, who in turn is an actor.
Moving on. A pawn can be owned not only by the playercontroller, but also by another type of controller
called AIController. This controller is responsible for artificial intelligence.
One of its main tasks is to launch the tree of behavior that we see on the screen. It is the
brain of the bot. In fact, the pawn can be controlled by both the player and the artificial intelligence.
In the pawn settings, you can specify the AIController class of interest to us in the corresponding property.
And when the game starts, we control one character, and the other by artificial intelligence.
PlayerController is a subclass of the base class AController and AIController also
inherits from it . Therefore, our schema is updated as follows.
The main class of the level is the GameMode class. It specifies various settings for the game level
and defines the general rules of the game. For example, the time of the game, how many players can participate,
how many bots, how is the distribution by teams, whether the player can respawn, and so on.
I will supply the GameMode that we will create in this course.
We start the game. Several bots have been created. Everyone was assigned to teams and the game began.
This all happened thanks to our GameMode. I'll set the number of players in GameMode to a smaller one, let it be 2.
Let's look at the next class. It's called the HUD. The abbreviation stands for Head Up Display.
This class is responsible for the user interface. This class is a bit outdated.
It is hardly used directly. All interfaces in the unreal engine are done using widgets.
We will also consider them, but at least HUD can be used as a
manager class for all widgets. Let's go further. Spectator class is an observer class.
This is a special pawn that our controller owns after our character dies.
Usually it's just a flying camera. We will additionally have a black and white effect for this camera.
The next class is PlayerState. He also has no idea. The class is usually used
to store various statistics of the player: how many opponents he destroyed, how many times
he himself died, and so on. This class also exists throughout the entire level.
The next class is GameState. It is used in multiplayer logic, through it
various information on the gameplay is transmitted to clients, which is located in GameMode.
In a multiplayer game, the GameMode class is located only on the server.
But we are not interested in this information now. We define all these classes for one level.
There can be many levels in our game, so these classes may differ in another level.
For another map, we can configure this set of classes in a different way, for example, at the start of one level,
we control a flying saucer, at the start of another by a car, at the start of a third character. In this course, we will also
learn how to open levels programmatically. When a new level is opened, all classes are recreated: GameMode,
PlayerState, PlayerController, and so on. But unreal also has a class that exists
throughout the game. It is called a game instance, in it you can store various global information
that does not depend on a specific level: graphic settings, sound settings and also
directly information on the loaded levels. This class is specified in project settings.
But we'll talk about this later.
Let's summarize. The game can consist of several levels.
The base class of each level is GameMode. He is responsible for creating all the base classes:
pawn, controller, spectator, player state, game state and hud.
When you open a new level, the game mod specified in this level is created and all main classes are also recreated.
And throughout the game, regardless of the current level, there is an object of the UGameInstance class.
This concludes a brief overview of the game classes.
In subsequent lessons, we will talk more about these classes as we progress through the course.